# Multithreading
I designed a multithreading application mimicking a simplified hotel reservation sytem following the guidelines specified in the given project description. The project stated the need for the creation of 10 hotel threads each an activated instance of an object storing a fictional hotel name, room availability, and price per room. Then it was required to prompt the user for a reservation request in which the user inputs maximum price limit per room and total rooms required. Once the user inputs the required information, 10 reservation threads are created. One issue that could have occurred had there been no thread control filter would be that multiple reservation threads would make reservations and subtract rooms from the hotel information threads. Instead of having one reservation thread reserving one hotel, it would accidentally become one reservation request would alter numerous hotels, creating far too many false reservations. In order to prevent simultaneous threads from booking with multiple hotels the best solution was to introduce a multi buffer cell. The buffer cell only contained 5 cells and can only be filled with  hotel information threads. The reservation thread then parses the buffer cells until one finds a match. First to find a match then books the room, subtracts room availability from the inital hotel thread and prints a booking confirmation alongside a total price required for booking the required amount of rooms. The reservation threads all end execution while the hoter information threads are still live. The challenging part however was that the project had specified the need to implement a 5 second timer within the multi buffer cell. When a hotel thread enters the multicell buffer it can only stay 5 seconds before it is supposed to exit making room for another hotel thread in its place. Even when the user is taking time to input booking information or waiting to confirm a reservation, the thread encapsulated timer determines if five seconds has elapsed. This allows the multithreaded system to have a consistent flow of updated information within the buffer.
